docs/README.md, before:

# .NET Tracer for Datadog APM

## Installation and Usage

Please [read our documentation](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup/dotnet) for instructions on setting up .NET tracing and details about supported frameworks.

## Downloads
Package|Download
-|-
Windows and Linux Installers|[See releases](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-dotnet/releases)
`Datadog.Trace`|[![Datadog.Trace](https://img.shields.io/nuget/vpre/Datadog.Trace.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Datadog.Trace)
`Datadog.Trace.OpenTracing`|[![Datadog.Trace.OpenTracing](https://img.shields.io/nuget/vpre/Datadog.Trace.OpenTracing.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Datadog.Trace.OpenTracing)
`Datadog.Trace.ClrProfiler.Managed`|[![Datadog.Trace.ClrProfiler.Managed](https://img.shields.io/nuget/vpre/Datadog.Trace.ClrProfiler.Managed.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Datadog.Trace.ClrProfiler.Managed)

## Build Status

Pipeline          | Build Status
------------------|-------------
Unit tests        | [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/datadog-apm/dd-trace-dotnet/_apis/build/status/unit-tests?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/datadog-apm/dd-trace-dotnet/_build/latest?definitionId=28&branchName=master)
Integration tests | [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/datadog-apm/dd-trace-dotnet/_apis/build/status/integration-tests?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/datadog-apm/dd-trace-dotnet/_build/latest?definitionId=27&branchName=master)

# Development

## Components

**[Datadog Agent](https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent)**: A service that runs on your application servers, accepting trace data from the Datadog Tracer and sending it to Datadog. The Agent is not part of this repo; it's the same Agent to which all Datadog tracers (e.g. Go, Python, Java, Ruby) send data.

**[Datadog .NET Tracer](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-dotnet)**: This repository. A set of .NET libraries that let you trace any piece of your .NET code. Supports manual instrumentation and can automatically instrument supported libraries out-of-the-box.

## Windows

### Minimum requirements

- [Visual Studio 2019](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/) or newer
  - Workloads
    - Desktop development with C++
    - .NET desktop development
    - .NET Core cross-platform development
    - Optional: ASP.NET and web development (to build samples)
  - Individual components
    - .NET Framework 4.7 targeting pack
- [.NET Core 2.1 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core/2.1)
- Optional: [nuget.exe CLI](https://www.nuget.org/downloads) v3.4.4 or newer
- Optional: [WiX Toolset 3.11.1](http://wixtoolset.org/releases/) or newer to build Windows installer (msi)
  - Requires .NET Framework 3.5 SP2 (install from Windows Features control panel: `OptionalFeatures.exe`)
  - [WiX Toolset Visual Studio Extension](https://wixtoolset.org/releases/) to build installer from Visual Studio
- Optional: [Docker for Windows](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/) to build Linux binaries and run integration tests on Linux containers. See [section on Docker Compose](#building-and-running-tests-with-docker-compose).
  - Requires Windows 10 (1607 Anniversary Update, Build 14393 or newer)

Microsoft provides [evaluation developer VMs](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/downloads/virtual-machines) with Windows 10 and Visual Studio pre-installed.

### Building from a command line

From a _Developer Command Prompt for VS 2017_:

```cmd
rem Restore NuGet packages
rem nuget.exe is required for command line restore because msbuild doesn't support packages.config
rem (see https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7386)
nuget restore Datadog.Trace.sln

rem Build C# projects (Platform: always AnyCPU)
msbuild Datadog.Trace.proj /t:BuildCsharp /p:Configuration=Release;Platform=AnyCPU

rem Build NuGet packages
dotnet pack src\Datadog.Trace\Datadog.Trace.csproj
dotnet pack src\Datadog.Trace.OpenTracing\Datadog.Trace.OpenTracing.csproj
dotnet pack src\Datadog.Trace.ClrProfiler.Managed\Datadog.Trace.ClrProfiler.Managed.csproj

rem Build C++ projects (Platform: x64 or x86)
msbuild Datadog.Trace.proj /t:BuildCpp /p:Configuration=Release;Platform=x64

rem Build MSI installer (Platform: x64 or x86)
msbuild Datadog.Trace.proj /t:msi /p:Configuration=Release;Platform=x64
```

## Linux

### Minimum requirements

To build C# projects and NuGet packages only
- [.NET Core SDK 2.1](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core/2.1)

To build everything and run integration tests
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

### Building and running tests with Docker Compose

You can use [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) with Linux containers to build Linux binaries and run the test suites. This works on both Linux and Windows hosts.

```bash
# build C# projects
docker-compose run build

# build C++ project
docker-compose run Profiler

# run integration tests
docker-compose run IntegrationTests
```

## Further Reading

Datadog APM
- [Datadog APM](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/)
- [Datadog APM - Tracing .NET Applications](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup/dotnet/)
- [Datadog APM - Advanced Usage](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/advanced_usage/?tab=dotnet)

Microsoft .NET Profiling APIs
- [Profiling API](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/unmanaged-api/profiling/)
- [Metadata API](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/unmanaged-api/metadata/)
- [The Book of the Runtime - Profiling](https://github.com/dotnet/coreclr/blob/master/Documentation/botr/profiling.md)

OpenTracing
- [OpenTracing documentation](https://github.com/opentracing/opentracing-csharp)
- [OpenTracing terminology](https://github.com/opentracing/specification/blob/master/specification.md)

## Get in touch

If you have questions, feedback, or feature requests, reach our [support](https://docs.datadoghq.com/help).

Commit message:

Install the 32-bit Profiler with the 64-bit Installer (#521)
High-Level Summary of Changes:
- 32-bit Installer: Minimal changes. This is the installer we recommend for 32-bit machines.
- 64-bit Installer: Install both the 32-bit Profiler and 64-bit Profiler in the one Installer. This is the installer we recommend for 64-bit machines, regardless of the target application's bitness.

Detailed changes:
- For 64-bit installer builds, make sure to build the 32-bit Profiler before building the MSI, place the 32-bit Profiler on-disk in "Program Files (x86)", and register the 32-bit Profiler as a COM component.
- Change the `Description` of the COM component from `Datadog .NET Tracer <bitness>-bit` to `Datadog .NET Tracer`.
- Edit `Datadog.Trace.proj` so all of the MSI dependencies are built when invoking the `Msi` target. This simplifies the packages Azure DevOps pipeline and developer building steps.

docs/README.md, after:

# .NET Tracer for Datadog APM

## Installation and Usage

Please [read our documentation](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup/dotnet) for instructions on setting up .NET tracing and details about supported frameworks.

## Downloads
Package|Download
-|-
Windows and Linux Installers|[See releases](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-dotnet/releases)
`Datadog.Trace`|[![Datadog.Trace](https://img.shields.io/nuget/vpre/Datadog.Trace.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Datadog.Trace)
`Datadog.Trace.OpenTracing`|[![Datadog.Trace.OpenTracing](https://img.shields.io/nuget/vpre/Datadog.Trace.OpenTracing.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Datadog.Trace.OpenTracing)
`Datadog.Trace.ClrProfiler.Managed`|[![Datadog.Trace.ClrProfiler.Managed](https://img.shields.io/nuget/vpre/Datadog.Trace.ClrProfiler.Managed.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Datadog.Trace.ClrProfiler.Managed)

## Build Status

Pipeline          | Build Status
------------------|-------------
Unit tests        | [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/datadog-apm/dd-trace-dotnet/_apis/build/status/unit-tests?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/datadog-apm/dd-trace-dotnet/_build/latest?definitionId=28&branchName=master)
Integration tests | [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/datadog-apm/dd-trace-dotnet/_apis/build/status/integration-tests?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/datadog-apm/dd-trace-dotnet/_build/latest?definitionId=27&branchName=master)

# Development

## Components

**[Datadog Agent](https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent)**: A service that runs on your application servers, accepting trace data from the Datadog Tracer and sending it to Datadog. The Agent is not part of this repo; it's the same Agent to which all Datadog tracers (e.g. Go, Python, Java, Ruby) send data.

**[Datadog .NET Tracer](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-dotnet)**: This repository. A set of .NET libraries that let you trace any piece of your .NET code. Supports manual instrumentation and can automatically instrument supported libraries out-of-the-box.

## Windows

### Minimum requirements

- [Visual Studio 2019](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/) or newer
  - Workloads
    - Desktop development with C++
    - .NET desktop development
    - .NET Core cross-platform development
    - Optional: ASP.NET and web development (to build samples)
  - Individual components
    - .NET Framework 4.7 targeting pack
- [.NET Core 2.1 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core/2.1)
- Optional: [nuget.exe CLI](https://www.nuget.org/downloads) v3.4.4 or newer
- Optional: [WiX Toolset 3.11.1](http://wixtoolset.org/releases/) or newer to build Windows installer (msi)
  - Requires .NET Framework 3.5 SP2 (install from Windows Features control panel: `OptionalFeatures.exe`)
  - [WiX Toolset Visual Studio Extension](https://wixtoolset.org/releases/) to build installer from Visual Studio
- Optional: [Docker for Windows](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/) to build Linux binaries and run integration tests on Linux containers. See [section on Docker Compose](#building-and-running-tests-with-docker-compose).
  - Requires Windows 10 (1607 Anniversary Update, Build 14393 or newer)

Microsoft provides [evaluation developer VMs](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/downloads/virtual-machines) with Windows 10 and Visual Studio pre-installed.

### Building from a command line

From a _Developer Command Prompt for VS 2017_:

```cmd
rem Restore NuGet packages
rem nuget.exe is required for command line restore because msbuild doesn't support packages.config
rem (see https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/7386)
nuget restore Datadog.Trace.sln

rem Build C# projects (Platform: always AnyCPU)
msbuild Datadog.Trace.proj /t:BuildCsharp /p:Configuration=Release

rem Build NuGet packages
dotnet pack src\Datadog.Trace\Datadog.Trace.csproj
dotnet pack src\Datadog.Trace.OpenTracing\Datadog.Trace.OpenTracing.csproj
dotnet pack src\Datadog.Trace.ClrProfiler.Managed\Datadog.Trace.ClrProfiler.Managed.csproj

rem Build C++ projects (Platform: x64 or x86)
rem The native profiler depends on the Datadog.Trace.ClrProfiler.Managed.Loader C# project so be sure that is built first
msbuild Datadog.Trace.proj /t:BuildCpp /p:Configuration=Release;Platform=x64

rem Build MSI installer (Platform: x64 or x86)
msbuild Datadog.Trace.proj /t:msi /p:Configuration=Release;Platform=x64
```

## Linux

### Minimum requirements

To build C# projects and NuGet packages only
- [.NET Core SDK 2.1](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core/2.1)

To build everything and run integration tests
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

### Building and running tests with Docker Compose

You can use [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) with Linux containers to build Linux binaries and run the test suites. This works on both Linux and Windows hosts.

```bash
# build C# projects
docker-compose run build

# build C++ project
docker-compose run Profiler

# run integration tests
docker-compose run IntegrationTests
```

## Further Reading

Datadog APM
- [Datadog APM](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/)
- [Datadog APM - Tracing .NET Applications](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup/dotnet/)
- [Datadog APM - Advanced Usage](https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/advanced_usage/?tab=dotnet)

Microsoft .NET Profiling APIs
- [Profiling API](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/unmanaged-api/profiling/)
- [Metadata API](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/unmanaged-api/metadata/)
- [The Book of the Runtime - Profiling](https://github.com/dotnet/coreclr/blob/master/Documentation/botr/profiling.md)

OpenTracing
- [OpenTracing documentation](https://github.com/opentracing/opentracing-csharp)
- [OpenTracing terminology](https://github.com/opentracing/specification/blob/master/specification.md)

## Get in touch

If you have questions, feedback, or feature requests, reach our [support](https://docs.datadoghq.com/help).
